now though let's turn to the latest on
the Middle East and the United Nations
security Council has again delayed a
vote on a resolution calling for a halt
to the fighting in Gaza it's the fourth
time it's been postponed this week it
has been delayed since Monday as member
states try to work out a draft that the
United States won't veto our United
Nations correspondent Neda torfi has the
latest from New York what I heard from
one Diplomat is that they've made more
progress today than they have all week
and that they are narrowing the gaps
what we have received is the latest
draft resolution and it is different in
key aspects from the last proposal now
instead of calling for a suspension of
hostilities the draft now calls for
Urgent steps to immediately allow safe
and unhindered humanitarian access with
creating conditions for a sustainable
cessation of hostilities so the wording
there toned down from the original draft
the resolution ution on the table now
also appoints a senior humanitarian and
reconstruction coordinator that will
then appoint a un mechanism to try to
speed up Aid into Gaza uh so it's all
quite a mouthful but these are the
proposals on the table this was made to
try to uh prevent a US veto to get the
United States on board with this
resolution that's Neda toik at the
United Nations well after the meeting
ended the UN ambassador to the UN Linda
Thomas Greenfield spoke to
reporters we do have that resolution now
we're ready to vote on it uh and uh it's
a resolution that will bring
humanitarian assistance to those in need
it will support uh
the uh the priority that EA pass in
ensuring that we put uh a a mechanism uh
um on the ground that will support
humanitarian
assistance um and we're ready to vote
for it that's the UN US ambassador at
the UN well let's cross to Joe floto who
is our Middle East bureau chief he's
live in Jerusalem for us Joe thank you
very much for joining us um let's talk
about this um resolution how significant
would it be if the UN signs up to
it look I think at the moment we're
seeing in uh New York uh diplomacy
meeting reality so what we've got here
uh are two sides who are uh violently
opposed to each other but are have very
different views on when the next
ceasefire should happen so Hamas and the
other Palestinian factions fighting in
Gaza have come out very publicly and in
conversation with uh Egyptian mediators
to say there will be no uh Paws no
negotiation for a transfer of hostages
uh unless the the the conflict finishes
unless the the ceasefire is permanent on
the Israeli side they say well we're not
going to agree to that because we are
fighting an enemy who inflicted a huge
amount of suffering and damage on our
country on October the 7th and continues
to fire Rockets into Israel the Israeli
Prime Minister says we won't stop until
Hamas is destroyed but Israel is open to
a longer ceasefire in exchange for
hostages but I have to be realistic here
I mean last night an Israeli senior
official told us that they're not
actually in a negotiation at the moment
although they are having useful talks
with mediators so the two sides are very
very far apart and in the middle well
we've got 2 and a half million people in
Gaza 1.9 million of them are uh
displaced from their homes and the UN is
reporting uh severe hunger uh and
disease spreading amongst those people
not to mention of course uh the deal is
climbing as the military operation
continues every single day and how much
Aid is at the moment getting in we know
quite a bit got in where there was the
pause in fighting but since that has
resumed are any trucks getting in dayto
day so trucks are going in uh they vary
dayto day uh how many go in sometimes it
can be up to 200 trucks a day and then
that flow goes down the UN is saying
look uh we need to speed this up and if
Israel were to open fully it it's Main
terminal with Gaza on the Israeli side
then that could be fulfilled uh
currently uh there is a a very slow
encumbersome uh operation to check every
single truckload of Aid and that is
controlled by Israel Israel says that's
necessary because it doesn't want
anything going to Hamas that would help
it prosecute its War uh and at the
moment there's not enough Aid going
through by anyone's assessment apart
from Israel Israel says there's plenty
of food still in Gaza the markets have
food and it's actually the un uh who
could speed up their supply of trucks
for inspection something that the UN
flatly Rejects and said that's not true
Joe floto in Jerusalem thank you very
much indeed well we can speak now to Sam
block who is director of emergency
response for World Central Kitchen in
Gaza which has been working to provide
meals for Citizens inside Gaza Sam
you're in Rafa which is in the south of
Gaza what is the situation like with you
where you
are so in Rafa uh we're working both in
Northern Gaza and in southern Gaza but
in in southern Gaza we've seen just an
incredible condensing of the population
uh the whole southern part of Gaza
normally has about
280,000 uh people living here and we we
now have uh well over a million so there
there is people absolutely everywhere uh
seeking some sense of of safety um we're
we're feeding as many of them as we can
we're currently U providing enough food
via our trucks coming across for at one
meal a day about 22% of the population
but that is obviously not even close to
enough um we're we're we're doing all
all that it is that we can we sending as
we have a lot of trucks in the pipeline
we've had about 400 trucks enter Gaza
already um and we have a lot uh waiting
on the Egyptians side uh to come in
there is the the the there is food on
the markets on the so to speak markets
lots of little Street vendors a lot of
which are reselling um uh humanitarian
food that's been donated it's kind of
become the informal economy you need one
thing you you you know sell or trade one
thing you receive but all the food uh
coming from within Gaza is is becoming
on very very short demand and while
there is food in those markets it's
three to four times what the average uh
cost would have been there's a a severe
uh scarcity in addition to
that some people may know there's been
very very little propane means for
people to cook food uh here in Rafa you
know Southern Gaza every possible every
tree you know every time you drive
anywhere every day you see less and less
trees so people are resting to anything
possible
um to create heat in order to be able to
cook fuel World Central Kitchen is
bringing in Alternatives we've designed
in engineering um alternative to propane
cooking cooking stoves and fuel sources
uh but it's still simply notal you
mentioned you're in the south of Gaza
what is the situation like in the North
is it is it much worse
there the reports are um
really really hard hard to handle uh I
will be going up to to to Gaza City
tomorrow uh especially even in the
hospitals you know we're getting reports
uh from the hospitals to where they they
would prefer water over medical
attention because that's what how
immediate the need is so we will be
taking food and water up there again
it's been trickling up it's very
challenging to get the food into Gaza
but into Southern Gaza but then to get
it up to even the hospitals and Northern
Gaza it's extremely challenging so we're
hoping to be able to push more up we
were able to push a lot up during the
last ceasefire we're definitely hoping
for the ceasefire to really get as much
as we possibly can to northern northern
Gaza and Gaza City are you hopeful of
that happening at any point in the near
future hopeful is a hopeful is a big
word um things are are changing here
daily so you really have to um you
really have to be addressing every every
situation from day to day moment to
moment and and being as ready as
possible we've you know have multiple
contingency plans every single day for
every action that we do so uh yes
hopeful but then also constant planning
and backup plans to do as much as we can
okay s block director of emergency
respons of world Central Kitchen in Gaza
thank you very much for joining us